<pre>

Exam Details

	Exam Number: 1Z0-850
	Exam Title: Java SE 5 and 6, Certified Associate (retiring May 31, 2018)

	Duration:	115 minutes
	Number of Questions:	
	51

	Passing Score:	68%  
	View passing score policy
	Validated Against:	
	This exam has been validated against SE 6.

	Format:	Multiple Choice
	Exam Price:	Rs 9701 More on exam pricing








JAVA SE 6
Oracle Certified Associate, Java SE 5/SE 6
JAVA SE 6
This exam retires May 31, 2018. More


Oracle University | Contact Us: Local: 1800 103 4775 Intl: +91 80 4108 4709 

Fundamentals of the Java Programming Language, Java SE 6 
Duration: 0 Days 
What you will learn 
	This Fundamentals of the Java Programming Language training teaches you the significance of object-oriented 
	programming. You'll learn the keywords and constructs of the Java programming language and the steps required to 
	create simple Java technology programs - all of which help you build a useful and marketable foundation of skills. 
Learn To: 
	Explain Java Technology. 
	Analyze a problem and design a solution. 
	Develop and test a Java technology program. 
	Declare, initialize and use variables. 
	Create and use objects. 
	Use operators and decision constructs. 
Benefits to You 
	Investing in this course will give you a solid basis in the Java programming language upon which to base continued work 
	and training. The course features the Java Platform, Standard Edition 6 (Java SE 6) platform and uses the Java SE 
	Development Kit 6 (JDK 6) product. 
Please Note: 
	Prior to enrolling in this course, it's ideal to have some programming experience. This experience could be with a 
	scripting language, such as Perl, or a third-generation language (such as Basic or C). 
Audience 
	Java Developer 
	Project Manager 
	System Administrator 
	Web Administrator 
Related Training 
Required Prerequisites 


Required Prerequisites:
	Create programs using a procedural language, such as C, or a scripting language, such as Perl
	Create and edit text files using a text editor
	Use a World Wide Web (WWW) browser
	Solve logic problems

Suggested Prerequisites:
	Describe the concept of a variable
	Execute commands using a command-line interface

Course Objectives:
	Demonstrate knowledge of Java technology, the Java programming language, and the product life cycle
	Use various Java programming language constructs to create several Java technology applications
	Use decision and looping constructs and methods to dictate program flow
	Implement intermediate Java technology programming and object-oriented (OO) concepts in Java technology programs

Topics:
	Java SE6
Explaining Java Technology
	Describe key concepts of the Java programming language
	List the three Java technology product groups
	Summarize each of the seven stages of the product life cycle
Analyzing a Problem and Designing a Solution
	Analyze a problem using object-oriented analysis
	Design classes from which objects will be created
Developing and Testing a Java Technology Program
	Identify the four components of a class in the Java programming language
	Use the main method in a test class to run a Java technology program from the command line
	Compile and execute a Java technology program
Declaring, Initializing, and Using Variables
	Identify the use the syntax for variables and define the syntax for a variable
	List the eight Java programming language primitive data types
	Declare, initialize, and use variables and constants according to Java programming language guidelines and coding standards
	Modify variable values using operators
	Use promotion and type casting
Creating and Using Objects
	Declare, instantiate, and initialize object reference variables
	Compare how object reference variables are stored in relation to primitive variables
	Use a class (the String class) included in the Java Software Developer Kit (SDK)
	Use the Java 2 Platform, Standard Edition (J2SE) class library specification to learn about other classes in this application programming interface (API)
Using Operators and Decision Constructs
	Identify relational and conditional operators
	Create if and if/else constructs
	Use the switch construct
Using Loop Constructs
	Create while loops
	Develop for loops
	Create do/while loops
Developing and Using Methods
	Describe the advantages of methods and define worker and calling methods
	Declare and invoke a method
	Compare object and static methods
	Use overloaded methods
Implementing Encapsulation and Constructors
	Use encapsulation to protect data
	Create constructors to initialize objects
Creating and Using Arrays
	Code one-dimensional arrays
	Set array values using length attribute and a loop
	Pass arguments to the main method for use in a program
	Create two-dimensional arrays
Implementing Inheritance
	Define and test your use of inheritance
	Explain abstraction
	Explicitly identify class libraries used in your code


Topics 2

	Assume the following:
	Missing package and import statements: If sample code do not include package or import statements, and the question does not explicitly refer to these missing statements, then assume that all sample code is in the same package, or import statements exist to support them.
	No file or directory path names for classes: If a question does not state the file names or directory locations of classes, then assume one of the following, whichever will enable the code to compile and run:

	  ? All classes are in one file
	  ? Each class is contained in a separate file, and all files are in one directory
	Unintended line breaks: Sample code might have unintended line breaks. If you see a line of code that looks like it has wrapped, and this creates a situation where the wrapping is significant (for example, a quoted String literal has wrapped), assume that the wrapping is an extension of the same line, and the line does not contain a hard carriage return that would cause a compilation failure.
	  ? Code fragments: A code fragment is a small section of source code that is presented without its context. Assume that all necessary supporting code exists and that the supporting environment fully supports the correct compilation and execution of the code shown and its omitted environment.
	Descriptive comments: Take descriptive comments, such as "setter and getters go here," at face value. Assume that correct code exists, compiles, and runs successfully to create the described effect.


TOPICS
Section 1: Fundamental Object-Oriented Concepts
	Describe, compare, and contrast primitives (integer, floating point, boolean, and character), enumeration types, and objects.
	Describe, compare, and contrast concrete classes, abstract classes, and interfaces, and how inheritance applies to them.
	Describe, compare, and contrast class compositions, and associations (including multiplicity: (one-to-one, one-to-many, and many-to-many), and association navigation.
	Describe information hiding (using private attributes and methods), encapsulation, and exposing object functionality using public methods; and describe the JavaBeans conventions for setter and getter methods.
	Describe polymorphism as it applies to classes and interfaces, and describe and apply the "program to an interface" principle.
Section 2: Java Implementation of Object-Oriented Concepts
	Notes: code examples may use the 'new' operator.
	Develop code that uses primitives, enumeration types, and object references, and recognize literals of these types.
	Develop code that declares concrete classes, abstract classes, and interfaces, code that supports implementation and interface inheritance, code that declares instance attributes and methods, and code that uses the Java access modifiers: private and public.
	Develop code that implements simple class associations, code that implements multiplicity using arrays, and recognize code that implements compositions as opposed to simple associations, and code that correctly implements association navigation.
	Develop code that uses polymorphism for both classes and interfaces, and recognize code that uses the "program to an interface" principle.
Section 3: Algorithm Design and Implementation
	Describe, compare, and contrast these three fundamental types of statements: assignment, conditional, and iteration, and given a description of an algorithm, select the appropriate type of statement to design the algorithm.
	Given an algorithm as pseudo-code, determine the correct scope for a variable used in the algorithm, and develop code to declare variables in any of the following scopes: instance variable, method parameter, and local variable.
	Given an algorithm as pseudo-code, develop method code that implements the algorithm using conditional statements (if and switch), iteration statements (for, for-each, while, and do-while), assignment statements, and break and continue statements to control the flow within switch and iteration statements.
	Given an algorithm with multiple inputs and an output, develop method code that implements the algorithm using method parameters, a return type, and the return statement, and recognize the effects when object references and primitives are passed into methods that modify them.
	Given an algorithm as pseudo-code, develop code that correctly applies the appropriate operators including assignment operators (limited to: =, +=, -=), arithmetic operators (limited to: +, -, *, /, %, ++, --), relational operators (limited to: <, <=, >, >=, ==, !=), logical operators (limited to: !, &&, ||) to produce a desired result. Also, write code that determines the equality of two objects or two primitives.
	Develop code that uses the concatenation operator (+), and the following methods from class String: charAt, indexOf, trim, substring, replace, length, startsWith, and endsWith.
Section 4: Java Development Fundamentals
	Describe the purpose of packages in the Java language, and recognize the proper use of import and package statements.
	Demonstrate the proper use of the "javac" command (including the command-line options: -d and -classpath), and demonstrate the proper use of the "java" command (including the command-line options: -classpath, -D and -version).
	Describe the purpose and types of classes for the following Java packages: java.awt, javax.swing, java.io, java.net, java.util.
Section 5: Java Platforms and Integration Technologies
	Distinguish the basic characteristics of the three Java platforms: J2SE, J2ME, and J2EE, and given a high-level architectural goal, select the appropriate Java platform or platforms.
	Describe at a high level the benefits and basic characteristics of RMI.
	Describe at a high level the benefits and basic characteristics of JDBC, SQL, and RDBMS technologies.
	Describe at a high level the benefits and basic characteristics of JNDI, messaging, and JMS technologies.
Section 6: Client Technologies
	Describe at a high level the basic characteristics, benefits and drawbacks of creating thin-clients using HTML and JavaScript and the related deployment issues and solutions.
	Describe at a high level the basic characteristics, benefits, drawbacks, and deployment issues related to creating clients using J2ME midlets.
	Describe at a high level the basic characteristics, benefits, drawbacks, and deployment issues related to creating fat-clients using Applets.
	Describe at a high level the basic characteristics, benefits, drawbacks, and deployment issues related to creating fat-clients using Swing.
Section 7: Server Technologies
	Describe at a high level the basic characteristics of: EJB, servlets, JSP, JMS, JNDI, SMTP, JAX-RPC, Web Services (including SOAP, UDDI, WSDL, and XML), and JavaMail.
	Describe at a high level the basic characteristics of servlet and JSP support for HTML thin-clients.
	Describe at a high level the use and basic characteristics of EJB session, entity and message-driven beans.
	Describe at a high level the fundamental benefits and drawbacks of using J2EE server-side technologies, and describe and compare the basic characteristics of the web-tier, business-tier, and EIS tier.










Sample Questions

	Exam 850 – Sample Questions 

	1) Given the code fragment: 
	int radius = 2; 
	final float PI = 3.14f; 
	// line n1 
	System.out.println(area); 

	Which declaration statement, when inserted at line n1, enables the code fragment to print: 12.56? 
		A) float area = radius * radius * PI; 
		B) double area = radius * radius * PI; 
		C) long area = radius * radius * PI; 
		D) short area = radius * radius * PI; 

	2) Which two are required for encapsulating a Java class? 
		A) Attributes must be marked with public. 
		B) Attributes must be marked with private. 
		C) Internal methods must be marked with public. 
		D) Internal methods must be marked with private. 
		E) Attributes must be given private accessor and mutator methods. 

	3) Given the code fragment: 
	int a[] = {1, 1, 1, 1}; 
	a[0] = 1; 
	a[1] = 2; 
	a[2] = a[0] + a[1]; 
	for (int i = 0; i < a.length; i++) { 
	 System.out.print(a[i]); 
	} 

	What is the result? 
		A) 1231 
		B) 1121 
		C) 1111 
		D) An exception is thrown at runtime. 

	4) Given: 
	public class A { 
	 public void method1() { } 
	 private void method2() { } 
	} 
	public class B extends A { 
	 public void method3(){} 
	} 
	And the code fragment, 
	public static void main(String[] args) { 
	 A obj = new B(); 
	 // line n1 
	} 

	Which code fragment compiles at line n1? 
		A) obj.method1(); 
		B) obj.method2(); 
		C) obj.method3(); 
		D)obj.method1();  obj.method2(); 

	5) Given the code fragment: 
	int n1 = 100; 
	switch (n1) { 
	 case 100: 
	 n1 = n1 - 10; 
	 case 110: 
	 n1 = n1 - 20; 
	} 
	System.out.print("n1 = " + n1); 
	What is the result? 
		A) n1 = 80 
		B) n1 = 90 
		C) n1 = 70 
		D) n1 = 100 

	6) Given the code fragment: 
	String x = "J*v*"; 
	String y = "a"; 
	x.replace("*", y); 
	String z = x.substring(1); 
	System.out.println(z); 

	What is the result? 
		A) ava 
		B) *v* 
		C) * 
		D) a 

	7) Which package contains APIs that are useful for distributed programming and communication? 
		A) java.awt 
		B) java.net 
		C) java.util 
		D) javax.swing 

	8) Which two technologies are the primary components of the database tier? 
		A) SQL 
		B) HTTP 
		C) JDBC 
		D) RDBMS 
		E) Java 

	9) Which two types of applications are appropriate for J2ME? 
		A) games 
		B) word processing 
		C) remote data collection 
		D) number processing 

	10) Which describes the role of servlet developer? 
		A) a Java programmer who creates programs that execute on cell phones 
		B) a Java programmer who creates classes that respond to HTTP requests 
		C) a web designer who generates dynamic web pages to create user interfaces 
		D) a Java programmer who creates components that represent data in a relational database 

	--------------- 
	Answers: 
	1-A 
	2-B and D 
	3-A 
	4-A 
	5-C 
	6-B 
	7-B 
	8-A and D 
	9- A and C 
	10-B 


</pre>
