<pre>

Exam Details

	Exam Number: 1Z0-851
	Exam Title: Java SE 6 Programmer Certified Professional (retiring May 31, 2018)

	Duration:	150 minutes
	Number of Questions:	
	60

	Passing Score:	61%  
	View passing score policy
	Validated Against:	
	This exam has been validated against SE 5 and SE 6.

	Format:	Multiple Choice
	Exam Price:	Rs 9701 More on exam pricing
 

Concept
	Encapsulation, loose coupling, and high cohesion
	Polymorphism
	Modifiers on inheritance
	Overridden or overloaded methods
	Superclass or overloaded constructors
	Collections / Generics
	Comparable interface
	HashCode
	Collections API
	Java.util package
	Fundamentals
	Access modifiers, package declarations, and import statements
	Runtime behavior
	Garbage collection
	Directory structure









Fundamentals of the Java Programming Language, Java SE 6 
	Oracle University | Contact Us: Local: 1800 103 4775 Intl: +91 80 4108 4709 

	Duration: 0 Days 

	What you will learn 

	This Fundamentals of the Java Programming Language training teaches you the significance of object-oriented 
	programming. You'll learn the keywords and constructs of the Java programming language and the steps required to 
	create simple Java technology programs - all of which help you build a useful and marketable foundation of skills. 

	Learn To: 

	Explain Java Technology. 
	Analyze a problem and design a solution. 
	Develop and test a Java technology program. 
	Declare, initialize and use variables. 
	Create and use objects. 
	Use operators and decision constructs. 

	Benefits to You 

	Investing in this course will give you a solid basis in the Java programming language upon which to base continued work 
	and training. The course features the Java Platform, Standard Edition 6 (Java SE 6) platform and uses the Java SE 
	Development Kit 6 (JDK 6) product. 

	Please Note: 

	Prior to enrolling in this course, it's ideal to have some programming experience. This experience could be with a 
	scripting language, such as Perl, or a third-generation language (such as Basic or C). 

	Audience 

	Java Developer 
	Project Manager 
	System Administrator 
	Web Administrator 

	Related Training 

	Required Prerequisites 

	Create programs using a procedural language, such as C, or a scripting language, such as Perl 

	Create and edit text files using a text editor 

	Use a World Wide Web (WWW) browser 

	Copyright © 2013, Oracle. All rights reserved. Page 1 

	
	Solve logic problems 

	Suggested Prerequisites 

	Describe the concept of a variable 

	Execute commands using a command-line interface 

	Course Objectives 

	Demonstrate knowledge of Java technology, the Java programming language, and the product life cycle 
	Use various Java programming language constructs to create several Java technology applications 
	Use decision and looping constructs and methods to dictate program flow 
	Implement intermediate Java technology programming and object-oriented (OO) concepts in Java technology programs 

	Course Topics 

	Explaining Java Technology 

	Describe key concepts of the Java programming language 
	List the three Java technology product groups 
	Summarize each of the seven stages of the product life cycle 

	Analyzing a Problem and Designing a Solution 

	Analyze a problem using object-oriented analysis 
	Design classes from which objects will be created 

	Developing and Testing a Java Technology Program 

	Identify the four components of a class in the Java programming language 
	Use the main method in a test class to run a Java technology program from the command line 
	Compile and execute a Java technology program 

	Declaring, Initializing, and Using Variables 

	Identify the use the syntax for variables and define the syntax for a variable 
	List the eight Java programming language primitive data types 
	Declare, initialize, and use variables and constants according to Java programming language guidelines and coding standards 
	Modify variable values using operators 
	Use promotion and type casting 

	Creating and Using Objects 

	Declare, instantiate, and initialize object reference variables 
	Compare how object reference variables are stored in relation to primitive variables 
	Use a class (the String class) included in the Java Software Developer Kit (SDK) 
	Use the Java 2 Platform, Standard Edition (J2SE) class library specification to learn about other classes in this application programming 

	Using Operators and Decision Constructs 

	Identify relational and conditional operators 
	Create if and if/else constructs 

	Copyright © 2013, Oracle. All rights reserved. Page 2 

	
	Use the switch construct 

	Using Loop Constructs 

	Create while loops 
	Develop for loops 
	Create do/while loops 

	Developing and Using Methods 

	Describe the advantages of methods and define worker and calling methods 
	Declare and invoke a method 
	Compare object and static methods 
	Use overloaded methods 

	Implementing Encapsulation and Constructors 

	Use encapsulation to protect data 
	Create constructors to initialize objects 

	Creating and Using Arrays 

	Code one-dimensional arrays 
	Set array values using length attribute and a loop 
	Pass arguments to the main method for use in a program 
	Create two-dimensional arrays 

	Implementing Inheritance 

	Define and test your use of inheritance 
	Explain abstraction 
	Explicitly identify class libraries used in your code 

	Copyright © 2013, Oracle. All rights reserved. Page 3 

	








Java Programming Language, Java SE 6 
	Oracle University | Contact Us: Local: 1800 103 4775 Intl: +91 80 4108 4709 

	Duration: 0 Days 

	What you will learn 

	This Java Programming Language, Java SE 6 training is a foundational course that teaches you how to develop 
	applications using the Java Programming Language. Expert Oracle University instructors will help you deep dive into the 
	syntax of the Java language, objective-oriented programming, creating graphical user interfaces (GUIs), exceptions, file 
	input/output (I/O), creating multi-threaded applications and networked applications. 

	Learn To: 

	Create an event-driven graphical user interface (GUI) using Swing components, including panels, buttons, labels, text 
	fields and text areas. 
	Implement error-handling techniques using exception handling. 
	Use arrays and other data collections. 
	Use Java flow control constructs. 
	Use Java data types and expressions. 

	Benefits to You 

	By taking this course, programmers will get the chance to add the Java programming language to their list of skills. The 
	knowledge you gain and the exercises you perform will also help prepare for the Oracle Certified Professional, Java SE 
	6 Programmer examination. Furthermore, if you're looking to widen your career opportunities, developing in demand 
	Java programming expertise will make you more marketable to both current and future employers. 

	Participate in Hands-On Labs 

	You'll also get the chance to practice your skills with labs that range from simple to complex. You'll be led by 
	experienced instructors who answer your questions and guide your learning experience. 

	Audience 

	Developer 

	Related Training 

	Required Prerequisites 

	Understand object-oriented principles 

	Be competent in creating programs in any programming language 

	Create and edit text files using a text editor 

	Copyright © 2013, Oracle. All rights reserved. Page 1 

	
	Suggested Prerequisites 

	Fundamentals of the Java Programming Language (CDJ-110-SE6) 

	Course Objectives 

	Implement input/output (I/O) functionality to read from and write to data and text files and understand advanced I/O 
	streams 
	Create a simple Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol (TCP/IP) networked client that communicates with a 
	server through sockets 
	Create multi-threaded programs 
	Create Java technology applications that leverage the object-oriented features of the Java language, such as 
	encapsulation, inheritance, and polymorphism 
	Execute a Java technology application from the command line 

	Course Topics 

	Getting Started 

	Examine Java technology 
	Analyze a simple Java technology application 
	Execute a Java technology application 

	Object-Oriented Programming 

	Define modeling concepts: abstraction, encapsulation, and packages 
	Discuss Java technology application code reuse 
	Define class, member, attribute, method, constructor, and package 
	Use the access modifiers private and public as appropriate for the guidelines of encapsulation 
	Invoke a method on a particular object 
	Use the Java technology API online documentation 

	Identifiers, Keywords, and Types 

	Use comments in a source program 
	Distinguish between valid and invalid identifiers 
	Use the eight primitive types 
	Define literal values for numeric and textual types 
	Define the terms primitive variable and reference variable 
	Declare variables of class type 
	Construct an object using new and describe default initialization 
	Describe the significance of a reference variable 

	Expressions and Flow Control 

	Distinguish between instance and local variables 
	Describe how to initialize instance variables 
	Recognize, describe, and use Java software operators 
	Distinguish between legal and illegal assignments of primitive types 

	Copyright © 2013, Oracle. All rights reserved. Page 2 

	
	Identify boolean expressions and their requirements in control constructs 
	Recognize assignment compatibility and required casts in fundamental types 
	Use if, switch, for, while, and do constructions and the labeled forms of break and continue as flow control structures in a program 
	Recognize assignment compatibility and required casts in fundamental types 
	Use if, switch, for, while, and do constructions and the labeled forms of break and continue as flow control structures in a program 

	Arrays 

	Declare and create arrays of primitive, class, or array types 
	Explain why elements of an array are initialized 
	Explain how to initialize the elements of an array 
	Determine the number of elements in an array 
	Create a multidimensional array 
	Write code to copy array values from one array to another 

	Class Design 

	Define inheritance, polymorphism, overloading, overriding, and virtual method invocation 
	Use the access modifiers protected and the default (package-friendly) 
	Describe the concepts of constructor and method overloading 
	Describe the complete object construction and initialization operation 

	Advanced Class Features 

	Create static variables, methods, and initializers 
	Create final classes, methods, and variables 
	Create and use enumerated types 
	Use the static import statement 
	Create abstract classes and methods 
	Create and use an interface 

	Exceptions and Assertions 

	Define exceptions 
	Use try, catch, and finally statements 
	Describe exception categories 
	Identify common exceptions 
	Develop programs to handle your own exceptions 
	Use assertions 
	Distinguish appropriate and inappropriate uses of assertions 
	Enable assertions at runtime 

	Collections and Generics Framework 

	Describe the general purpose implementations of the core interfaces in the Collections framework 
	Examine the Map interface 
	Examine the legacy collection classes 
	Create natural and custom ordering by implementing the Comparable and Comparator interfaces 
	Use generic collections and type parameters in generic classes 
	Refactor existing non-generic code 
	Write a program to iterate over a collection 
	Examine the enhanced for loop 

	I/O Fundamentals 

	Write a program that uses command-line arguments and system properties 
	Examine the Properties class 
	Construct node and processing streams, and use them appropriately 
	Serialize and deserialize objects 
	Distinguish readers and writers from streams, and select appropriately between them 

	Copyright © 2013, Oracle. All rights reserved. Page 3 

	
	Console I/ O and File I/O 

	Read data from the console 
	Write data to the console 
	Describe files and file I/O 

	Building Java GUIs Using the Swing API 

	Describe the JFC Swing technology 
	Identify the Swing packages 
	Describe the GUI building blocks: containers, components, and layout managers 
	Examine top-level, general-purpose, and special-purpose properties of container 
	Examine components 
	Examine layout managers 
	Describe the Swing single-threaded model 
	Build a GUI using Swing components 

	Handling GUI-Generated Events 

	Define events and event handling 
	Examine the Java SE event model 
	Describe GUI behavior 
	Determine the user action that originated an event 
	Develop event listeners 
	Describe concurrency in Swing-based GUIs and describe the features of the SwingWorker class 

	GUI-Based Applications 

	Describe how to construct a menu bar, menu, and menu items in a Java GUI 
	Understand how to change the color and font of a component 

	Threads 

	Define a thread 
	Create separate threads in a Java technology program, controlling the code and data that are used by that thread 
	Control the execution of a thread and write platform-independent code with threads 
	Describe the difficulties that might arise when multiple threads share data 
	Use wait and notify to communicate between threads 
	Use synchronized to protect data from corruption 

	Networking 

	Develop code to set up the network connection 
	Understand TCP/IP 
	Use ServerSocket and Socket classes to implement TCP/IP clients and servers 

	Copyright © 2013, Oracle. All rights reserved. Page 4 

	




Sample Questions

	Exam 851 – Sample Questions 
	 
	1) Given: 
	 
	public class SuperFoo { 
	 public SuperFoo doStuff(int x) { 
	 return new SuperFoo(); 
	 } 
	} 
	class Foo extends SuperFoo { 
	 //line n1 
	} 
	 
	Which code fragment at line n1 compiles? 
	 
	A) Foo doStuff(int x) { return new SuperFoo(); } 
	B) public Foo doStuff(int x) { return new SuperFoo(); } 
	C) public SuperFoo doStuff(int x) { return new Foo(); } 
	D) SuperFoo doStuff(int y) { return new SuperFoo(); } 
	2) Given: 

	public class Buddy { 
	 public static void main(String[] args) { 
	 def: 
	 for (short s = 1; s < 7; s++) { 
	 if (s == 5) { 
	 break def; 
	 } 
	 if (s == 2) { 
	 continue; 
	 } 
	 System.out.print(s + "."); 
	 } 
	 } 
	} 

	What is the result? 
	 
	A) 1.3. 
	B) 1.3.4. 
	C) 1.2.3.4. 
	D) 1.3.4.6. 
	 

	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	3) Given: 
	 
	public class Bird { 
	 public static void main(String[] args) { 
	 try { 
	 throw new Exception(); 
	 } catch (Exception e) { 
	 try { 
	 throw new Exception(); 
	 } catch (Exception e2) { 
	 System.out.print("inner "); 
	 } 
	 System.out.print("middle "); 
	 } 
	 System.out.print("outer "); 
	 } 
	} 

	What is the result? 
	 
	A) inner 
	B) inner middle 
	C) inner outer 
	D) inner middle outer 
	 
	4) Given the code fragment: 
	 
	class Traveler implements Serializable { 
	 static int x1 = 0; 
	 volatile int x2 = 0; 
	 transient int x3 = 0; 
	} 

	public class Network { 
	 public static void main(String[] args) { 
	 Traveler t = new Traveler(); 
	 t.x1 = 7; 
	 t.x2 = 7; 
	 t.x3 = 7; 
	 // code that serialize t then de-serialize t goes here 
	 System.out.print(t.x1 + " " + t.x2 + " " + t.x3); 
	 } 
	} 
	 
	What is the result? 
	 
	A) 0 7 0 
	B) 0 7 7 
	C) 7 7 0 
	D) 7 7 7 

	 

	 
	 
	
	5) Given the code fragment: 
	 
	public class App { 
	 public static final String M_ADDRESS = "Address1 0x4C Address2 0x5"; 
	 public static void main(String[] args) { 
	 // line n1 
	 Pattern pattern = Pattern.compile(regExPattern); 
	 Matcher matcher = pattern.matcher(M_ADDRESS); 
	 while (matcher.find()) { 
	 System.out.print(matcher.group()); 
	 } 
	 } 
	} 
	 
	Which declaration statement, at line n1, enables the code fragment to print 0x4C0x5? 
	 
	A) String regExPattern = "0[xX][a-fA-F0-9]"; 
	B) String regExPattern = "0[xX]([a-fA-F0-9])1"; 
	C) String regExPattern = "0[xX]([0-9a-fA-F])+"; 
	D) String regExPattern = "0[xX]([a-fA-F0-9])? "; 

	6) Given: 
	 
	public class Lockdown implements Runnable { 
	 public static void main(String[] args) { 
	 new Thread(new Lockdown()).start(); 
	 new Thread(new Lockdown()).start(); 
	 } 
	 public void run() { 
	 locked(Thread.currentThread().getId()); 
	 } 
	 synchronized void locked(long id) { 
	 System.out.print(id + "a "); 
	 System.out.print(id + "b "); 
	 } 
	 } 

	What is the result? 
	 
	A) The deadlock situation occurs. 
	B) If 7 and 8 are the Threads Ids generated, the possible output is:7a 7b 8a 8b or 7a 8a 7b 8b 
	C) Compilation fails. 
	D) An Exception is thrown at runtime. 
	 

	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	7) Given the statement: 
	Magazines are a kind of Messengers, and Magazines also fulfill the contract of NewsPapers. In 
	addition, Messengers are composed with several Messages. 

	Which code represents the statement? 
	 
	A) 
	class Message { } 
	class Magazine extends NewsPaper implements Messenger { } 
	interface Messenger { 
	Message [] w; 
	} 
	class NewsPaper { } 

	B) 
	class Message { } 
	class Magazine extends Messenger implements NewsPaper { } 
	class Messenger { 
	Message [] w; 
	} 
	interface NewsPaper { } 

	C) 
	class Magazine { } 
	class Message extends Magazine implements NewsPaper { } 
	class Messenger { 
	Message [] w; 
	} 
	interface NewsPaper { } 

	D) 
	 interface Message { } 
	class Magazine extends Messenger implements Message { } 
	class Message { 
	Messenger [] w; 
	} 
	class Messenger { } 

	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	8) Given the code fragment: 
	 
	public static void main(String[] args) { 
	 TreeMap<String, Integer> myMap = new TreeMap<String, Integer>(); 
	 myMap.put("ak", 50); 
	 myMap.put("co", 60); 
	 myMap.put("ca", 70); 
	 myMap.put("ar", 80); 
	 NavigableMap<String, Integer> myMap2 = myMap.headMap("d", true); 
	 myMap.put("fl", 90); 
	 myMap2.put("hi", 100); 
	 System.out.println(myMap.size() + " " + myMap2.size()); 
	} 

	What is the result? 
	 
	A) 6 5 
	B) 6 6 
	C) Compilation fails. 
	D) An exception is thrown at runtime. 

	9) Given the code fragment: 
	 
	String[] dogs = {"fido", "clover"}; 
	List dogList = Arrays.asList(dogs); 
	dogList.add("spot"); 
	dogs[0] = "fluffy"; 
	System.out.println(dogList); 
	for(String s: dogs) { 
	 System.out.print(s + " "); 
	} 
	What is the result? 
	 
	A) 
	[spot, fido, clover] 
	fluffy fido clover 

	B) 
	[fluffy, spot, fido, clover] 
	fluffy spot fido clover 

	C) Compilation fails. 

	D) An exception is thrown at runtime. 

	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	
	10) Given: 
	public class x { 
	public static void main(String [] args) { 
	String p = System.getProperty("x"); 
	if(p.equals(args[1])) 
	System.out.println("found"); 
	} 
	} 
	Which command-line invocation prints found? 
	 
	A) java -Dx=y x y z 
	B) java -Dx=y x x y z 
	C) java x x=y 
	D)java x x y z 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	------------ 
	 
	Answers: 
	 
	1. C 
	2. B 
	3. D 
	4. A 
	5. C 
	6. B 
	7. B 
	8. D 
	9. D 
	10. B 
	


</pre>
